master: remove TiDB Lightning web interface (#23095)
pingcap/docs: tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-web-interface.md

---
title: TiDB Lightning Web Interface
summary: Learn about the removal of the TiDB Lightning Web Interface and the recommended alternatives.
aliases: ['/docs/dev/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-web-interface/','/docs/dev/reference/tools/tidb-lightning/web/']
---

# TiDB Lightning Web Interface

> **Warning:**
>
> Starting from TiDB v8.5.7, TiDB Lightning no longer supports the web interface.

> To import data with TiDB Lightning, run `tidb-lightning` from the command line.

Reviewer: Could we mention `tidb-lightning-ctl` here too? The deprecation plan names both CLI tools as immediate alternatives, and `tidb-lightning-ctl` helps with checkpoint and troubleshooting operations.

```suggestion
To import data with TiDB Lightning, use the TiDB Lightning command-line tools: `tidb-lightning` for import tasks and `tidb-lightning-ctl` for checkpoint and troubleshooting operations.
```
